you're really trying hard yes I'm trying
hard in comparison to you I'm trying
hard and I'm proud of that hi guys
welcome back to my channel my name is
Michaela and today I'm going to talk
about why other people's opinions don't
matter let's get into this first of all
honey I'm not judging you at all I am
the biggest let's say victim of this
topic I used to let other people's
opinion get so much into my head that I
wouldn't even know who I am every time I
get some opinion from someone about my
life about how I should conduct myself
how I should wear stuff what I should
wear how I should look what career I
should pursue I would simply completely
question my
whole existence and now I am
detached from anyone's opinions and I'm
going to explain to you how I did that
and how you can do that too first of all
you need to understand that your
identity your personality is fluid it's
not something fixed in stone you can see
it as versions of yourself so throughout
your life you were many versions of
yourself right you had probably the
girly girly version maybe the goic
version maybe the bchy version maybe the
good girl version The Traveler version
whatever versions you've been through
they were simply versions right you
outgrew them and your next version was a
completely different version of you your
personality your beliefs your values
they evolved over time and they keep
evolving over time when someone is
judging you today on something you did
based on your version of you yesterday
why would it even matter to you because
you today is not you yesterday you now
is not you one minute before every time
you keep thinking okay whatever this
person is saying right now does not
align anymore with the version that I am
right now in that moment then
immediately you took away the power of
that opinion there will always be things
you do or you say that does not align
100% with who you truly are that happens
honey and that's completely fine
someone's opinions on that is simply not
important because that's not who you are
that's simply a word a sentence a
reaction that's not who you are another
thing is that people's opinions are
always based on their perception of you
if someone perceive you as a really
coldhearted person but that's not who
you are that's simply how they perceive
you it shouldn't matter to you you are
the only person who knows who you are so
if you know I am warmhearted and this
person now calls me a cold-hearted
person I know that's not true I know
that's not me that's a perception of
that person and these perceptions of
that person is a reflection of their
inner world so you have to always keep
in mind we are not in control of how
other people perceive us we are simply
in control how we put ourselves out
there if someone perceives us as dumb
but we know we are not dumb so what he
or she should perceive what she wants
the same way as two people can look at
the same thing at the same situation and
interpret it as two different things as
two different situations the same way it
is with people two different people can
perceive one and the same person in two
different ways so that's never based on
an objective reality that's simply based
on certain beliefs that person has
that's based on certain morals certain
values C certain brain structures
certain experiences that makes them
perceive you the way they perceive you
at the end of the day if you strip away
from yourself your looks your
achievements your label
your money your social validation who
are you ask yourself who are you when
you strip away from yourself everything
who are you at the core who is your soul
without everything attached to it
without all these Human Experience
attachments that's who you are and only
you know this person only you know who
you are Stripped Away with everything
because people always perceive us
interpret us on what they see and hear
which does not always exactly align with
what our soul is so the deeper your s
awareness the deeper and clearer you are
about who you are Stripped Away with all
those things the less any opinions
judgments from others will affect you
because you know exactly I am
XYZ and that's it and I know whatever
another person is perceiving is simply
what they see what they perceive but
that's not what I am and it will never
be actually if you know whoever sees me
in whatever way they see me it's never
exactly how I truly am that's like
Freedom that's something that nobody
else can strip away from you and that's
confidence that keeps you rooted that
will always stick with you another thing
is most people are unconscious and
reacting to things circumstances on
autopilot and they are based on their
past experiences people had traumas
people have limiting beliefs people have
certain morals people have fears and
that's simply what they are projecting
onto you so if someone is saying to you
it's pretty dump to do YouTube it's not
working there are enough YouTubers out
there that's a projection from their
fear most of the time people do want to
bring you down because they are fearing
that you will be successful and then
they have to face their truth that
actually they want to be also successful
in that or in in a similar thing but
they were just not strong and confident
and disciplined enough to do the same as
you did so they are trying to bring you
down they are trying to stop you from
achieving what you want to achieve
because at the end they will lose out
imagine you want to have a beautiful
boyfriend let's say and there is this
one girl and every time you are dating
someone that is beautiful she keeps
telling you this boy is ugly don't date
him this boy is not going to do you well
and so on so every time she is trying to
tell you off to date this guy maybe she
even makes you feel bad about dating
this guy how can you even meet those
guys that's ridiculous those guys just
they look stupid and so on how are you
even not aware that you always go for
those guys how stupid are you and at the
end this girl she simply wants to have
as well a beautiful boyfriend but she is
scared to date them because she is
scared of Abandonment so at the end of
the day people want to tell us off to do
something to achieve something to not
face their fears themselves if you keep
that in your mind you will understand
way more and you will understand that
people keep coming from their
perspectives they keep coming from their
insecurities their autopilot their
unconsciousness they are not aware of
what they actually want or even if they
are they are not strong enough to talk
about it they do not self-reflect for
example homophobic people are most
likely the ones who are actually gay
they are fearing gay people some of them
really hating gay people because at the
core they actually want it they actually
want to be gay they actually are gay
they want to express that they are gay
but they are afraid to talk about it
they are afraid to even acknowledge
those feelings so they are completely
unaware of who they are of what they
want and that's why they're projecting
Their Fear out onto others they are
letting others suffer because they are
letting themselves suffer unconsciously
another thing is that people always
mirror what is inside of them as I said
if someone is suffering inside that's
what this person is going to do with you
as well if someone has a beautiful
Insight if someone is loving and kind to
themselves that's what they're going to
be to others so doesn't matter what
someone is saying if someone is giving
you a good good review if someone is
giving you a bad comment if someone is
telling you you're ugly if someone is
telling you you are the most gorgeous
and successful person actually all of it
doesn't matter because it's simply based
on how they treat themselves on the
inside it has actually nothing to do
with you and if you understand that you
learn to detach from whatever someone is
saying at the end you do not want to
depend on someone's opinion in order to
feel better because then you will also
feel bad you feel even worse when
someone is not giving you the opinion
you want is judging you is giving you
criticism you want to completely detou
from other people's opinions doesn't
matter if it's good or bad and I learned
it the hard way when I started Instagram
when I first got viral with my Tik Tok
videos I got so many comments and I was
not used to that exposure so these
comments were some of them good some of
them bad and some of them really bad and
in the beginning I was trying to just
focus on the good it make me feel better
it gave me an a small ego push right but
I still saw those bad comments I still
saw those judgments about how I look how
I speak that my nose was crooked that my
hair was ugly and so on and even if I
didn't acknowledge it those comments
were rumoring in me they were living in
me and they were nagging on my
self-confidence a lot every time I was
trying to be better to improve
let's say improve because every time I
was trying to change myself in order to
remove those negative comments but you
can't remove negative comments you can't
remove negative judgments you can't
remove negative opinions and only want
the positive ones what you actually
should and want to do is to Simply
detach from it at all the only thing
that helped me was to really understand
it's not about me whatever someone is
saying is simply not about me I got
another comment recently someone saying
something like you're really trying hard
yes I'm trying hard in comparison to you
I'm trying hard and I'm proud of that
four years ago this would eat me up
really this would eat me up now I'm
thinking you guy or girl you don't have
anything else to do to talk about
someone else to come to a YouTube or to
come to Tik Tok to come to social media
and run on someone's video about how bad
they look how bad they talk how bad they
do their thing honestly I have to
respect that this person that's this
person's opinion right I cannot change
that opinion and I also don't want to
change that opinion I don't need to be
liked and I don't need to be approved by
everyone that's the beauty in life just
because I am not what this person likes
doesn't mean I'm worse than another
person right if you see two flowers for
example there is a rose and there is um
Lily you would not say oh the rose is
much more beautiful than the Lily they
are both beautiful in their own way even
though they look completely different
and even though you can say I prefer the
rose it doesn't make the Lily worse next
time if someone says something mean to
you if someone has an opinion about what
you are doing and it's not what you wish
to hear just see it as that's their
opinion it doesn't make me worse it
doesn't make me less worthy it doesn't
make me less beautiful it just is an
opinion is perspective for example if
I'm seeing someone on the street I think
wow this woman is beautiful 2 minutes
later I see another woman I think wow
this woman is beautiful I cannot tell
which one is now more or less beautiful
I see the beauty in all people that's my
weakness and my strength I see beauty in
everyone and that makes it so hard for
me personally to say someone is better
or worse because I see in everyone
everyone's
unique attractiveness everyone's unique
attributes everyone's unique character
everyone's unique personality and that's
the beauty in it everyone is different
and there are no scales for me anymore
everything is good in its own way and
anyways if you are trying to please
everyone if you are trying to be in good
stance with everyone you are going to
burn out honey because it's impossible
it's impossible you cannot be everyone's
favorite and that's actually good
because that polarity makes us as I said
unique and gives everyone a chance to be
who they want to be without being a
complete outstander imagine you are
trying to please everyone you are trying
to make everyone happy you are trying to
be everyone's positive opinion and to
have everyone on your side imagine you
have not free people around you you have
1 million different people around you
every and each each one of these people
have their own opinion right how do you
want to compromise 1 million opinions
into one person and make it you where do
you end up you will first of all not be
yourself anymore you will simply be
swallowed in opinions judgments in
perspectives you must be non-existent if
you want to please everyone another
thing is it also mirrors you you are a
reflection to everyone else and everyone
else is a reflection to you so if you
are triggered by what someone else is
saying ask yourself why are you
triggered by that if someone is saying
to me I really hate your purple hair and
if I'm triggered and I'm feeling that
the need to show and prove them that my
hair is not purple what do I fear do I
maybe secretly fear that I do have
purple hair do I secretly fear that my
hair doesn't look good if someone calls
you arrogant and it triggers you so much
ask yourself why does it trigger you do
you secretly feel that it is true it can
only trigger you if there is an
insecurity to be triggered and if you
understand your triggers then you have
it way more easy to let it go if you
understand okay I am triggered right now
because I'm actually scared that I am
arrogant maybe that's true then I can
work on that then I can try to accept
that okay that's the truth I am arrogant
and that's part of me I have to accept
it first and yeah yeah I'm working on it
but right now that's still part of me
that's how you can answer because once
you acknowledge it once you know first
of all that's part of you and you
acknowledge it nobody can say anything
about it because you know about it you
know it and you acknowledge it even if
you don't want it even if you do not
want to accept that part of you even if
you're trying to change that part of you
you accept it as part of of you and
that's everything that you need to be in
power of your own opinion and to make
external criticism lose its grip on you
another thing that helps me a lot every
time I'm in a situation where criticism
negative opinions appear then I'm asking
myself what meaning do I want to give to
it because reality is neutral there is
no meaning there is no scale as I said
before so you are the one who gives
meaning who gives scale to anything
every time someone attacks you you are
actually in a position where you can
choose to see that as an insult or you
see that simply as a reflection of their
own pain doesn't make it right what the
other person has done it doesn't make it
Justified but it takes back your power
and you are not overwhelmed you are not
being dragged down by someone else's
insult for example and once you master
this you can actually change your whole
life because with transcending something
and give it the meaning you want it to
give you can manifest way more easily
you can comp completely transform your
life because you are giving meaning to
it and everything you are everything you
see comes multiplied back to you so
whenever you are in a bad position but
you see it as a blessing you see it as
something greater is coming then that's
what you're attracting if you are
breaking up with a partner that you are
so in love with you see it a as this was
the love of my life I'm not going to
find someone else anymore this is the
worst thing happening in my life or
someone better is coming you have to
really see your role as the creator of
meaning in whatever situation you are in
and that has so much to do with other
people's opinions your whole life and
everything you experience
anyways I hope so much this could help I
hope you are finally able to detach from
other people's opinions and see it as
what it is a simply reflection of them
thank you so much for watching I love
you so so much and I see you in my next
video bye-bye